{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2868
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh19120\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Length: 1.5 Miles\
Organization:  Town of Vinalhaven & Vinalhaven Land Trust\
Difficulty: Intermediate and Very Challenging - Gentle Slopes to Summit, Very Steep Slopes down to Cove, Not Shaded, Uneven Footing\
Description: Middle Mountain Town Park protects 75 acres of regenerating forest and open ledge shaped by fire, geology, and time. A geologic fault runs through the property, dividing the island\'92s southern granite from the rhyolitic bedrock near Perry Creek. After a devastating 1933 fire, these uplands slowly returned to forest, now providing ideal habitat for songbirds and wildlife.\
The Middle Mountain Trail climbs gently for half a mile from the parking area to the open summit, where migrating raptors may be seen in autumn thermals. Hermit thrushes, white-throated sparrows, ovenbirds, yellowthroats, and black-throated green warblers fill the woods with song. Just North of the summit lies a peculiar plaque, detailing a surprising history of Mormonism on Vinalhaven.\
The \'be-mile Long Cove Loop branches left near the first hilltop, crossing sunny ledges before descending steeply to the head of Long Cove and a tidal overlook. It then climbs gradually toward views of the Camden Hills. Please note that part of this loop crosses private land. Please be courteous and carry out all trash.}