{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2868
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Length: 0.65 Miles\
Organization: Vinalhaven Land Trust\
Difficulty: Easy and Challenging - Gentle Walk to Beach, Steep Loop\
Description: Located along Zeke\'92s Point Road at the northern end of Vinalhaven, the 32-acre Eleanor L. Campbell Preserve is one of the island\'92s most distinctive properties, conserving two cherished features of Zeke\'92s Point shoreline. On the east side, visitors can explore Polly Cove\'92s gravel and cobble beach and follow a half-mile wooded trail to a scenic overlook with views toward Isle au Haut and Mount Desert. A short, level 200-yard path from the roadside pullout offers easy access to the shore.\
The Polly Cove trail passes through a rare Hardwood Seepage Forest natural community, supporting sugar and red maple, paper and yellow birch, bigtooth aspen, lady slippers, and red baneberry. More than 160 plant species have been documented here. Wildlife sightings may include ospreys, eagles, kingfishers, migratory songbirds, deer, mink, and raccoons.\
Across the road lies the historic Bathing Pool parcel, once a popular swimming and picnic spot. Hiking is not permitted there due to the unsafe condition of the dam. For elderly walkers, the lower parking lot is available. The upper, main parking lot requires a steep descent and up-hill return.}