{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2868
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh19120\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \cb2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Length: 1 Mile (Overlook) & 0.6 Mile (Fishhook)\
Organization: Vinalhaven Land Trust\
Difficulty: Intermediate - Steep Slopes, Some Uneven Footing on Loop, Shaded\
Description: The Lower Mill River Preserve encompass 49 acres across two distinct trail systems: the 15-acre Fish Hook Preserve and the 34-acre Overlook Trails. Together, they offer varied terrain and sweeping views along the Mill River.\
The Fish Hook trail descends immediately to the shoreline, passing a map kiosk before following shallow bays and coves around the peninsula. The trail features the Big Pines Loop, where towering White Pines provide a glimpse into the pre-industrial woods of Vinalhaven, and offers panoramic views to visitors. Rocky overlooks with benches provide peaceful places to watch for ducks, herons, osprey, and eagles. Though grades are mostly gentle, hikers should take care across occasional ledgy sections and steep sections. The trail also exits onto Calderwood Neck Road near the Carrying Place Bridge. \
The one-mile Overlook loop climbs from sea level to nearly 100 feet above the river, revealing Vinalhaven granite in its natural, unquarried form. Expansive shoreline vistas and well-placed benches invite visitors to pause and take in the wind, water, and soaring seabirds below. A delightful viewing deck offers stunning views and a wonderful swimming spot. The Overlook Trail also hooks up with the Vinal Cove Connector Trail, allowing ambitious hikers to connect to the Round Pond Trail system, a separate hiking area.}